>> Will Sentance: We now reach
our final section classes and
prototypes object oriented programming,
but particularly focusing on under
the hood, what are some of these features
that we see day to day in JavaScript.
Like this prototype chain we hear about
like this prototype property, we see on
our Functions, like this new key word we
see, like this class key word we see.
What are of these actually mean?
We're not even per se so much focused here
on building out the AOP paradigm as using
that as a lens from which we understand
the implementation of it in JavaScript,
meaning understand prototype chain.
It's a really elegant and beautiful thing.
I'm using elegant again
not know what it means.
It's a really, it's a thing, there we go.
All right, there we go.
So an enormously popular paradigm for
structuring our complex code.
Object oriented programming for
years and years and
years has been the way that we handle
having 100,000 lines of code in one file.
Not really one file, one application,
having some structure so
it's not just do this, then this,
then this, then this and
this here, but
some sort of organizing structure.
in JavaScript,
it depends on the prototype chain.
This is the behind the scenes feature
that enables us to achieve some
semblance of object oriented
pattern in JavaScript.
But it's also as I'm saying a compelling
tool in its own right is pretty nice.
We're gonna understand the difference
between proto and prototype.
We're going to see the new class,
the new in class keywords.
As much honestly for
us to be able to understand, for example,
in interview where one of the most popular
questions to ask of a mid senior developer
is, what's the newkey word
doing under the hood.
We're going to build it out from
scratch to fully understand it
as an allowed to automate
some of our work, but
we're also going to see the power of our
functions and lexical scoping within them.
We're going to see how this keyword works.
We're going to also learn about
that big Headline object,
the object.prototype, where we get all
our shared functions and all objects get.
All to come, we're gonna start it
off with reminding ourselves what
even is the core of development and
running code.
Two things we do remember,
save data and run code.
In a typical application that might be,
for example,
the quiz games, saving the scores and
the user names of two users, maybe 100
users, 1000 users all playing at once.
Don't think that by seeing on the UI,
like looking at the quiz games
visuals that that's the data saved.
That's the data displayed, it saved
behind the scenes in Java's memory.
That's how it's there, so it's not magic,
it's still behind the scenes.
Those are just pixels.
It's a behind the scenes of the computer.
The other half run over
application development or
running code is to actually run code,
functionality functions on that data.
For example, we've got a user want to
use it to increasing user to score
when they get a quiz question right.
That is it.
By the way, I don't know how we therefore
have a hundred thousand lines of code and
it's so complex, because that's it.
Why is learning so hard?
In a quiz game, you know what,
I need to save a lot of users.
But not just even users,
I've got to save and by the way,
all of them have lots of different
properties, information about them.
Score, username, avatar,
profile URL, email store,
status, last status of their
engagement with the application.
And that's just the start,
that's just usage.
People's got admins,
we've got quiz questions we need to save.
We've got quiz outcomes.
We've got league tables and
1000 other pieces.
All of these have data stored in our
applications runtime in the memory and
associated functionality that is code
that we can use to interact with and
use that data.
Or display it, render it,
display it, change it alter updated,
delete it whatever for
all application is functionality and
the associated data to run on that.
So if we start with users, it might be,
I don't know, increasing that score.
It could be displaying these but
in 100,000 lines of code,
it gets really complicated really fast.
Where is the functionality when I need it?
I've got my user one and I've got the
lovely data of their score and their name,
their username, but
I want to update the score.
But where's the function that
allows me to rate the score?
I've got 100,000 lines of code,
where is that function?
Not only that, that function
only applies to the users score.
Don't get me trying to start, I don't
know, or I suppose it was like a change
username, or yeah, update users image.
Don't try and use that
functionality on my league tables.
Don't try to use that
functionality on my quiz question.
So not only I do not know where
the functionality is in my hundred
thousand lines of code.
I don't know which bits of
my data it applies to and
that's what makes coding so complex.
So much data, so much functionality and
it only applies to certain bits.
And finding the right functionality and
making sure it only
applies to the right bit,
we need some sort of organizing structure.
I call that the bit here,
easy to reason about.
I want my code to be easy to
figure out what's going on.
But I also want my code to
be easy to add features to.
That is new functionality for
any given data, like users got
new functionality they can now, I don't
know, they can now log in with Facebook.
I want to be easy to add functionality.
But I don't want all of
that to come at the expense
of my code being reasonably performance
unefficient cuz it might well do so.
The object oriented paradigm, and
really all paradigms of code,
they're sets of guidelines,
they're best practices approaches that
allow us to achieve these three things.
They are kind of a bunch of ways of
organizing our code that will together
hopefully achieve these three goals.
And that's what it's about,
we're gonna achieve all three of these,
by the way from solution
to on was in my opinion.
But because developers often
come from other languages,
their idea of what easy to
reason about might not be
a JavaScript native style of writing and
organizing our code.
So solution three and four for achieving
structuring our code in a manageable way,
are primarily going to be
about shorthands for writing
the code that make it look a little bit
more like other programming languages.
In other words easier to reason about but
really easy to reason about,
only if you understand it under the hood.